what is money we all use money we need
it to buy things we work hard to earn it
we save it for retirement or a rainy day
we all rely on money so why don't we
know how money works why is there
sometimes too much of it making us
believe that the good times will never
end where did all that money come from
and why is there suddenly not enough
money around why are people struggling
to pay their bills where did all that
money go the surprising fact is that
most of the money in the UK is created
by banks like a magician banks make the
money up here seemingly out of nothing
whenever they make loans but this money
is not what it seems this money is
credit and is temporarily on loan from
the banks we use it as money we believe
that it is money but because it is
credit at some point in the future it
has to be paid back and when it is paid
back it disappears this is not a trick
this is how almost all of our money is
created and destroyed so how dependable
is this Bank created money that we all
rely on well banks make their profits by
charging interest on loans so as long as
they're confident in the economy they
want to lend as much as possible more
loans and mortgages means that more
money is created and before you know it
house prices go through the roof but if
they make too many loans the debt burden
becomes too large so people can't afford
to pay them back so then the banks stop
lending and suddenly there's not enough
money businesses go past people lose
their jobs and houses are repossessed
this is what caused the financial crisis
and fundamentally nothing has changed
since then money is still conjured up by
the banks and it still disappears when
debt is repaid until we change this will
never have a stable economy safe
jobs or affordable housing but it
doesn't have to be this way positive
money is campaigning to change the way
money is created and we need you to get
involved
you